This is your senator, Estes Keifoffer, who is one of the busiest legislators in Washington.
He has constantly engaged in legislative activity which benefits the people of the great state
of Tennessee as well as all Americans. Despite his busy schedule, Senator Keifoffer
looks forward to being with his wife and children in the evening when they have an opportunity
to discuss their normal family activities. Senator Keifoffer has received why to claim
for his work in the crime investigations and to trust hearings and the present investigations
into the drug industry. He is also vitally concerned with matters of great local interests
such as TBA, the Reclamation Projects Farm Legislation, the high cost of living and
numerous other problems that affect your everyday life. Senator Keifoffer has served
in Congress since 1939 and has been in the Senate for 12 years. As your personal representative
and friend, the senator would like to meet you. So let's join the family in their Washington
home. Senator Keifoffer.
My friends, I certainly would like to be with you and personal on this occasion, but of
course I have a lot of places to be in Tennessee. I do hope that during the summer I can have
an opportunity of visiting with you personally and talking with as many of you as possible.
But on this occasion I do want you to meet again my family, my wife Nancy whom all of
you know and Nancy you want to say something to the...
Yes, I'm glad to be with you too. I actually want to get down to Tennessee as much as I
can the summer and be with you in the next few months.
And then our oldest daughter cannot be with us on this occasion because she's struggling
hard to try to get by her freshman year at Vanderbilt, but Nancy I think you got a picture
of Linda. You didn't see that when it just came the
mail the other day. Well I'm anxious to see it and I know that Linda will be with us this
summer a great deal too. And here's my great big boy David. David Estes Keifoffer. David
how are you getting along? Far from at school we just had a fair and I want to cat it.
Oh school, that's fair. Well that may have to get out. That may have two cats we had.
Why'd you do that little bit of kitten? Well I had to give it away because we already
had two dogs in one cat. You mean you drew a number in one little kitten? Yes.
I used a cute little kitten I saw him but I saw to agree with you that one around the
house maybe enough. And Diane, this is our daughter Diane. She's not 12 years old and
she goes to school. What are you going to do this summer Diane? Well I'm planning to go
down to Tennessee after camp and help my sister around the house. Want to help Linda
what her own little house on Lookout Mountain? Well I hope that we just got our house finished
this last summer. We hope that as many of you as possible may come and visit us sometime
when we were there. I believe you have a big job of feeding the dogs in the cat most
of the time don't you Diane? Supposed to. Supposed to but and well Gail how are you getting
along sweetie? Gail is nine years old and are you going to come down and travel around
with us sometime this summer? Yeah well I got to camp first. And then I remember four
years ago you went several places with Nancy and me when we were in our campaign and what
you do in there when you went around. They're going your buttons. Put buttons on people.
I remember you put a button on you try to give a fellow a button he wouldn't take one
and what you do then. But I don't think it's good. Well that's a you were so little and
you had to reach up and put it on the back of his coat but I guess this time you can do
it a whole lot better. Well David what are you going to do when you got through? First
where you're going to go to college if you pass your grades and everything? Well I'd like
to go to the University of Tennessee because I believe that that has one of the best education
for agriculture. You may hear. You're going to be a farmer? Down at Madisonville maybe
one of these days. I bet you'll be a good farmer because you like to you're always willing
to mow the yard which I don't do very often. And then Diane you're like your mother you're
somewhat of an artist but what is it that you like to draw? Well I like to paint horses
and that's about it. Well I guess we've been talking a whole lot about how Diane paints
horses and then we did mention that you went down to the studio with mummy once in a while
and we might have proud of something happened about your paintings though the day what
was that? Well I saw two of my paintings and I got $2.00. Oh yeah that was wonderful.
I don't think a little girl ever has been so excited is when somebody paid her $10 for
a painting that's. $10 for two paintings. $10 for two paintings yeah that's for a half
feet. She lost a paint. Like aeol's a model isn't she? You just like to paint? No she
just paints like that. Well we have always have two good dogs and then Diane you want to
tell us about telling our friends about our present dogs? Well one's of Cocker Spaniel
and his name is Jo Jo. We've had Jo Jo a long time he's a pretty dog then what's the
new one? It's the Irish setter and her name is Amber. They're certain they're fine dogs
well I think maybe they were in the picture here a little while ago. I know that every morning
when the mailman comes you a great big stack of mail for you and down in the office we
got lots of mail from the people in Tennessee and you got a lot of mail what do they what
kind of mail do you get and how do you answer it? Well I get I get a lot of mail from women
intent throughout the state and I think their problems just about the same as ours are
here I keep out quite a correspondence as you know and discuss our mutual problems of our
children and our food and everything else. I know a lot of them right you about education and
about how cost of living or about in fact they might be going to come to Washington. Of course
you know we have many visitors from the state and we are constantly seeing people from Tennessee
just last week we had over 20 women at the Democratic Convention here so that's a
grand way to keep in touch with what's going on at home. I think the good people we are
visiting whether people particularly the women might be interested in a typical day of yours in
Washington Nancy what you do and what you have to do and what your activities are. Well of course
once a week the Senate ladies meet and that's a busy and amusing day we get into uniform and go
down to one of the rooms in the Senate and roll bandages and prepare squares and everything for
the Red Cross. And do a lot of talking to us. We do a lot of gossiping exchange news about our
various sections of the country and we take our lunch in a little paper bag and we got cup of coffee
and it's very informal. David you're going to go out and campaign some of this this summer.
Yes I hope to. And well you know a lot of boys in Tennessee because you've been over to
highlight campus. I think you're one of the oldest campers over there aren't you.
Yes sir. And what are you and Linda going to do when you got down to the house in Tennessee
Diane. Well I guess mostly clean it up and. And all the grass and yeah well Linda's
big enough to mold the grass isn't she. Well I mean we're planning to do just get ready for everybody.
I know that Nancy has about the same problem that most all mothers doing connection with education
I have to be aware a great deal and down at the office and Nancy has the job of taking the kids
around to the girl scouts and to the brownies and to the boy scouts. It's the arithmetic homework.
I wish you'd stay home more than that. To help with that. When I'm helping Gayle with her
arithmetic see David and Diane are a jump ahead so I come out pretty easily. And then when I have
to help David it's sometimes over my head. I remember you sent me a gave me a book on a 4-H
club. Can I have been reading it since then. Yeah well I'm glad David is wants to be a farmer
because we need more farmers but they've been having a many hard time as you know David but you'll
be a good one won't you. I don't know whether you ever actually be one but he's never wanted to be
anything else. Well I always want to be a lawyer I didn't know I'd ever be a politician
whether you never can tell. Well ladies and gentlemen certainly has been good to
visit with you on this occasion and I wish that our daughter Linda could be with us as well as
David and Diane and Gayle and we'll all be around this summer and try to see as many of you as possible.
Now that you have had a visit with my family I would like to spend a few minutes discussing some
of the more pressing domestic issues facing our state and our nation and letting you know where I
stand on them. Over the long haul one of the most serious unsolved problems is high prices.
We have been in an inflationary spiral for years and prices have been going up almost constantly.
If there is one group which does not need to be reminded of this fact it is the housewives.
It is no consolation to them to be told that inflation has been slowed down.
Prices still inch up almost every month and the net result over the years is indeed shocking.
The causes of our inflationary spiral are very complex and I won't try to oversimplify the problem
but one of the major causes is what the economist called administered prices.
We layman normally think of them as collusive prices. What it amounts to is that a particular
industry may be monopolized by a few huge companies which then rigged the prices to eliminate
competition and to assure extra high profits. Such practices could not be more contrary to the
basic concepts underlying our free enterprise system. I've held a number of hearings on monopolies
in some of our industries where competition has been almost completely eliminated.
The steel industry and the electrical industry are excellent examples.
More recently we held a long series of hearings to show why the cost of drugs to the drug
is so excessive and why the profits in the drug manufacturing industry are equally excessive.
And I shall continue to press for legislation which will restore competition to those many
industries which are now almost completely monopolized by a few huge firms.
And I think that fiscal irresponsibility is also something against which we must always be on
guard because it has something to do with inflation too. The Congress can and does make substantial
savings. We made cuts in the proposed budget at places where we felt that it could be done,
commensurate with the national security and the general welfare of the country.
For many years I was a member of the Armed Services Committee of the Senate and we were able
to eliminate to make many savings by eliminating many of the overlapping activities in our military
reorganization bill. Activities and waste which has been so common in the Pentagon.
Another problem which is crucial in complex is the firm situation. This problem gets worse and
worse each year. One of the favorite indoor sports throughout the country these days seems to be a
game called Beat Ezra Tath Benson and he seems to be fair game for Democrats and Republicans alike.
Well I think Mr. Benson has made a bad mess out of the firm situation but whipping him will not
solve the problems. There are many people who do not really understand how bad things are with
the average farmer. Very few non-farmers for example know that since 1951 the price of corn per
bushel has dropped from 166 to 105 per bushel and this is a 37 percent decrease or the cut and see
it is down 43 percent or the beef cattle are down 22 percent or the millions of people have been
leaving the farms and going into the already crowded cities. I could go on and on
but more figures would only underline the conclusion that the farmers are really in very bad
streets and this is particularly true of the small family farmer. Well I've spent a good part of my
22 years in Congress fighting for the survival of the small farmer and we must find ways to
protect the income of the small family size farmer and also find a way to assure that all farmers
get their fair share of the farm dollar. At the same time we must protect the taxpayer and the
consumer. I do not pretend that this will be easy but I do contend that it can be done.
One thing that I have urged is the establishment of a department of consumers and the federal government.
We have departments of agriculture of commerce and of labor but we have no department to look after
the interest of the consumers and every American is a consumer and a department to look after
our interest as consumers is long overdue. In my estimation the third most serious domestic problem
in the country today is that of providing first rate public schools to all of our children.
Despite a massive effort on the part of states and local communities in building schools
since World War II there is still a shortage of 140,000 classrooms throughout the country.
There is also a shortage of 195,000 teachers. Everyone knows the old adage about a picture being
worth a thousand words. Here is a recent cartoon by the famous Bill Maudlin which appeared in the
Harold Rebun and which proves this point very neatly. The cartoon says, I'm not playing
hooky, I just fell out. These shortages do not result from any lack of foresight or initiative
on the part of local authorities. They are dear rather to the fact that our population is
expanding at an extremely high rate and the fact that our local tax resources are stretched
almost to the breaking point. It is for this reason that I believe that federal aid for education
is vital. This aid can be given without any danger of federal control. The legislation has
specific prohibitions on this point and it can be given in such a way that states decide
how much of the aid is to be spent for school construction and how much for supplementing
teacher salaries. Federal aid would be a particular assistance to states like Tennessee whose
average income is below the national average. For every dollar paid in federal taxes paid by
Tennessee and we would get back more than two dollars in federal aid and these are good national
programs too. I have here a chart which was recently published by the Tennessee Municipal Association.
It says federal grants in aid return two dollars and twenty two cents to Tennessee for every one
dollar in federal taxes. It is a tremendous bargain for state with only two-thirds U.S. average.
Well let's take for example here. Here is water pollution control. The total spent in Tennessee is
4.52 million and Tennessee is paid for this program in Texas 1.9 million and let's take a hospital
construction which means which means so much to especially smaller cities of Tennessee. The total
received in Tennessee was 47.2 million and Tennessee ends for this program paid 16.4 million and then
others are on down the land as you will see. As I said before the average is more than two dollars
in aid for every dollar in taxes. This is obviously a great bargain for Tennessee but it's also
beneficial to the rest of the country as the economic health of the country depends on the economic
health of all of its sections. Well I've heard a number of people argue that federal aid to education
is vital if we are to keep up with the Russians. Well this is true but I think that all American
children are entitled to a first rate education even if the serious external threat did not exist.
We are about far the richest nation in the world. We can certainly afford not only a decent education
for our children but an excellent education. Well this chart when you saw it a minute ago you
will notice that there is no mention of several very important programs. One of these is federal aid
to depressed areas of which there are many in Tennessee. The Congress passed a bill to assist
these blighted areas in their redevelopment but this was unfortunately vetoed and you also saw
a few minutes ago no mention of a program for medical or hospital care for our agent, our senior
citizens. We all know that this is a much needed program since a great proportion of our older people
have greatly increased medical and hospital expenses when they are least able to pay for them.
It is my hope and expectation that some adequate program that will give them some substantial
relief may be enacted in the very near future. There are also a number of going concerns which are
particularly interest to Tennessee and which are the subject of constant sniping in Washington.
A good example is the Tennessee Valley Authority which is done more to revitalize the
economy of Tennessee that anything else in the last hundred years well in our history for that
matter. There are constant attempts by the public power interest either to chop it apart or at
least to tie its hands. There are others who would destroy or limit the R.E.A. program which is so
vital to rural Tennessee. I am quite certain that all of the attempts to destroy these worthwhile
projects will ultimately fail but in a literal sense there must be a constant vigilance in both
the houses of Congress and among our people who are affected if they are to remain vital and
effective for our continued use. Another subject which has occupied my time and attention to a great
extent has been the national difficulty and problem of juvenile delinquency. As chairman of the
Senate subcommittee dealing with this problem we held hearings in various parts of the country.
It was our object to enlist the cooperation of all government agencies, local, state, and federal
and to coordinate their efforts with those of the parents, schools, and the churches. In a sense we
were engaged in an educational process but in another sense we were engaged in a very important
legislative process. We were able to get a new to get new laws enacted to tighten up the traffic
in the control and the control of narcotics. We are now working on legislation to strengthen the
hands of the post office department and the Department of Justice in their battle against smut and
obscenity. The Senate passed a bill for aid to the states and the training of personnel to combat
juvenile delinquency. We also want to establish forestry camps which we believe are superior to juvenile
homes for many types of delinquents. Well as important as these domestic problems may be
I am sure that all of you are aware of the equal seriousness of our international situation.
A permanent peace is something which we are yet to achieve. Meanwhile we must keep our country
both militarily and economically strong. One of our greatest sources of strength is the unity
of the Atlantic community, especially the cooperation which has been achieved within the NATO
and the NATO nations. As long as the NATO countries stand together, war is unlikely because the
communists know that we would win any war that they started. I have attended many meetings of the
NATO parliamentarians who are the legislators from all of the NATO countries. I have worked for
the establishment of the Atlantic Congress which was held last June from which we hope to get a
more closely knit economic community in this part in this area of the world. Such a community could
more fully share the cost of foreign aid which we have supported almost alone for many years now.
There are a number of other subjects which I should like to discuss with you but I have already
presumed upon your patience. Again let me say how sorry I am not to be with you in person on this
occasion and let me thank you very much for letting me visit with you on this film.